echo ApplicationTools.i
pswig ApplicationTools.i
echo AttributesTools.i
pswig AttributesTools.i
echo BppString.i
pswig BppString.i
echo BppVector.i
pswig BppVector.i
echo Clonable.i
pswig Clonable.i
echo ColorManager.i
pswig ColorManager.i
echo ColorSet.i
pswig ColorSet.i
echo ColorTools.i
pswig ColorTools.i
echo DefaultColorSet.i
pswig DefaultColorSet.i
echo DvipsColorSet.i
pswig DvipsColorSet.i
echo Exceptions.i
pswig Exceptions.i
echo FileTools.i
pswig FileTools.i
echo Font.i
pswig Font.i
echo FontManager.i
pswig FontManager.i
echo GraphicDevice.i
pswig GraphicDevice.i
echo IOFormat.i
pswig IOFormat.i
echo KeyvalTools.i
pswig KeyvalTools.i
echo MapTools.i
pswig MapTools.i
echo MolscriptColorSet.i
pswig MolscriptColorSet.i
echo Number.i
pswig Number.i
echo PGFGraphicDevice.i
pswig PGFGraphicDevice.i
echo RColorSet.i
pswig RColorSet.i
echo RGBColor.i
pswig RGBColor.i
echo StringTokenizer.i
pswig StringTokenizer.i
echo SVGGraphicDevice.i
pswig SVGGraphicDevice.i
echo TextTools.i
pswig TextTools.i
echo XFigGraphicDevice.i
pswig XFigGraphicDevice.i
